# Wordpress Installation

Below are described the steps I took to install and run Wordpress. First, I installed XAMPP server and so I can run Wordpress. The following sequence to each step is as described below. 


## Install XAMPP:

First step it to download [XAMPP](https://www.apachefriends.org/download.html). In this case, I downloaded XAMPP 7.2.9 / PHP 7.2.9 (file *xampp-linux-x64-7.2.9-0-installer.run*). Then installed it into the system by running:

```
$ chmod +x xampp-linux-x64-7.2.9-0-installer.run
$ sudo ./xampp-linux-x64-7.2.9-0-installer.run
```

After installing, click **Launch** to start XAMPP server. From the *Manage Servers* tab, start MySQL module since Wordpress uses it to save content. Entering in [PHP MyAdmin](http://localhost/phpmyadmin/), I first added a password to the root user. By accessing *Contas de Usuários -> Edit priveleges (for root) -> Alterar Palavra Passe*. Having set the password, click in *Executar*.

---
## Install Wordpress:

The first step to install Wordpress is donwload it from [Wordpress](www.wordpress.org) site - I downloaded the version 4.9.8 (file *wordpress-4.9.8.tar.gz*). Before copying the Wordpress folder to XAMPP, we have to create specific tables into MySQL. In order to do that, access PHP MyAdmin and create a database with the name of the application (e.g., *aferro*). Now we go to the *htdocs* folder (/opt/lampp/htdocs) and create a new folder with the same name of the database (*aferro*). 

Next step is to copy all the content of the *wordpress-4.9.8.tar.gz* file into the *aferro* folder:

```
$ tar -zxvf wordpress-4.9.8.tar.gz
$ sudo cp -r wordpress/* /opt/lampp/htdocs/aferro/
```

Now we copied the content of Wordpress folder into the server, we have to edit the *wp-config-sample.php* as *wp-config.php* as:

```
$ sudo cp wp-config-sample.php wp-config.php
$ sudo gedit wp-config.php
```

In *wp-config.php*, we set:

```
/** The name of the database for WordPress */
define('DB_NAME', 'aferro');

/** MySQL database username */
define('DB_USER', '<user>');

/** MySQL database password */
define('DB_PASSWORD', '<passwd>');
```

Having set *wp-config.php*, we connect to the Wordpress page of our application in the browser (localhost/aferro). If everything was correctly set, the Wordpress ask us the Title of the page, a username and password, and an email to the application. Thus, I add the title *Title*, the username *<username>* and the password *aferro* and *<email>*. Thus, the login page will appear. 

When you want to login the application, you have to access the address (localhost/aferro/wp-login.php). Adding *<user>* and *<passwd>* in the login and password, the page will be redirected to the Wordpress Dashboard.

---
# Configuring Pages

## Generating a new Theme

Before starting creating pages and menus, first, clone the `aferro` repository and copy the folder `wp-content/themes/maintheme/` to the `htdocs/aferro/wp-content/themes/` folder. In WordPress page, go to `Appearance -> Themes` and activate the Aferro Main Theme.

## Creating pages

In WordPress -> Pages menu, create pages `home` (label: "HOME"), `sobre` (label: "SOBRE"), `top-menu` (label: "H"), `aulas` (label: "AULAS") and `onde-estamos` (label: "ONDE ESTAMOS"). After creating all pages, we have to customize our pages as static pages. To do that, select `Appearance -> Customize` menu. In this menu, select `Homepage Settings` and in `Your homepage displays`, select "A static page". In `Homepage` select "HOME". Finally, "Publish" the page.

## Creating menu

After creating all pages, go to `Appearance -> Menus`. In `Screen Options` select the "CSS Classes". Now, add `top-menu` in Menu Name and click "Create Menu". Next, you have to add the content of the menu. We have four pages and the logo in the center of the page, thus, we add the menu as "HOME", "SOBRE", "H", "AULAS" and "ONDE ESTAMOS". As we do not have the page "H", we add the page "HOME" twice and rename it to "H". In this menu, we also have to add `iconmenu general-background` to the "CSS Classes (optional)". In `Display location`, set "My Custom Menu" and finally, click `Save Menu`.

## Adding ContactForm 7 plugin

In "ONDE ESTAMOS" page, we have a form that is generated by ContactForm 7 plugin. In order to create this form, copy the folder `wp-content/plugins/contact-form-7/` to the `htdocs/aferro/wp-content/plugins/` folder. In WordPress, select `Plugins` menu and activate `Contact Form 7`. Activating the plugin generates a new `Contact` menu. In this menu, edit the `Contact form 1` by adding the content of the file `wp-content/themes/maintheme/assets/texts/contact_form.txt` to the form textarea. Into `Mail` tab, replace `[your-name]` to `[form-name]`, `[your-email]` by `[form-email]` and `[your-message]` by `[form-message]`. Do not forget of removing the line containing the `[your-subject]` since our form does not contain "Subject". Finally, save the `Contact` form. Into `Messages` tab, replace sentences to the sentences in `wp-content/themes/maintheme/assets/texts/messages.txt`.
